# Fruchtfolge Model

This repo contains the simulation model used in the [**Fruchtfolge**](https://github.com/fruchtfolge/Fruchtfolge) application. 

The mixed-interger model optimises total farm profits, with respect to crop rotations on a highly detailed single plot resolution.

Restrictions such as the

- Greening directive
- rotational breaks
- maximum allowed crop shares in the crop rotation
- available labour endowments
- soil quality 
- crop rotational effects
- effects of field-to-farm distance on costs and labour requirements
- other user defined constraints

are implemented in the model.

The model is written in [GAMS](https://www.gams.com/) language. You need a valid GAMS license in order to run the model.

**Fruchtfolge** is a decision support model aimed to be operated by practitioners. If you are a researcher interested in single farm modeling, please have a look at our dynamic mixed integer bio-economic model [**FarmDyn**](http://www.ilr.uni-bonn.de/em/rsrch/farmdyn/farmDynDoku/)

## Overview
The **Fruchtfolge** optimisation model comprises of two main parts:

1. The so called *include* file, which is generated by the [Fruchtfolge application](https://github.com/fruchtfolge/Fruchtfolge). This file includes all farm specific data, which currently comprises of the individual farms
 - Historical plots
 - Current plots (planning horizon)
 - Plot information, as soil quality, type, distance
 - Historical crops
 - Current crops (planning horizon) 
 - Botanical crop groups, linked to the crops (for compliance with the greening directive)
 - maximum crop rotational shares as defined by the user
 - other constraints defined by the user
 
 Plot and crop names are obfuscated in order to ensure confidentiality of the farmer. Examples of such an include file can be found in the `test/include` subdirectory.

2. The main optimisation model logic, which is stored in this repository. The main model logic is **farm agnostic**, which ensures that the model is capable of solving any possible combination of farm endowments.

## fruchtfolge.gms

The main model logic is joined in this file. Here, the objective function is specified and additional constraints are included from the `model` folder.

## model/

Constraints as defined by the Greening directive, or general crop rotational constraints, are stored in the `model` folder.

## Tests

In order to test the model, execute
```
npm test
```

The `test/include/` folder contains so called *include* files generated by the **Fruchtfolge** main application from different test farms. For every farm, a corresponding expected model result with the same file base name needs to be specified in the `include/results` folder.

## Build
In order to build the model, execute
```
npm run build
```
Note that only `$include` statements in the form of `$include '%WORKDIR%path/to/file.gms'` are correctly concatenated into the final model. Other statements, as `$batinclude` etc. are currently not supported.
